docs/devices/harvardapparatus/elite11.md, before:

# Harvard Apparatus Syringe Pump Elite11

## Introduction
Harvard-Apparatus Elite11 pumps connected via USB cables (which creates a virtual serial port) are supported in flowchem
via the two device types: `Elite11InfuseOnly` and `Elite11InfuseWithdraw`.
This difference reflect the existence in commerce of both variants, i.e. pumps only capable of infusion and pumps that
support both infusion and withdrawing commands.

As for all `flowchem` devices, the virtual instrument can be instantiated via a configuration file that generates an
openAPI endpoint.


## Configuration
Configuration sample showing all possible parameters:

```toml
[device.my-elite11-pump]  # This is the pump identifier
type = "Elite11InfuseOnly"  # Either Elite11InfuseOnly or Elite11InfuseWithdraw depending on model
port = "COM11"  # This will be /dev/tty* under linux/MacOS
address = 0  # Only needed for daisy-chaining. The address can be set on the pump, see manufacturer manual.
syringe_diameter = "4.6 mm"
syringe_volume = "1 ml"
baudrate = 115200  # Values between 9,600 and 115,200 can be selected on the pump! (115200 assumed if not specified)
```

```{note} Serial connection parameters
Note, further parameters for the serial connections (i.e. those accepted by `serial.Serial`) such as `baudrate`,
`parity`, `stopbits` and `bytesize` can be specified.
However, it should not be necessary as the following values (which are the default for the instrument) are
automatically used:
* baudrate 115200
```


## Device detection
Lab PCs often have several devices connected via serial ports.
Elite11 pumps can be auto-detected via the `flowchem-autodiscover` command-line utility.
After having installed flowchem, run `flowchem-autodiscover` to create a configuration stub with all the devices that
can be auto-detected on your PC.

## Further information
For further information about connection of the pump to the controlling PC, daisy-chaining via firmware cables etc.
please refer to the [manufacturer manual](./elite11_manual.pdf).

Commit message:

Refactor components (#83)
* Fix reference to removed module

* improve msg

* Fix CI

* Update docs

* Update docs

* Streamline clarity.py

* Docs changes

* Begin refactoring for zeroconfig and components

* Clarity with new format

* New component style first stub

* Improve docs

* Port chiller to components

* update README.md

* New TemperatureControl

* Port AzuraPump to components

* Port KnauerValve to components

* Update typing info and docs

* Port Manson PS to components

* typing fix

* Port FlowIR to components

* Port Vici to components

docs/devices/harvardapparatus/elite11.md, after:

# Harvard Apparatus Syringe Pump Elite11

## Introduction
Harvard-Apparatus Elite11 pumps connected via USB cables (which creates a virtual serial port) are supported in flowchem
via the `Elite11` device type.
Depending on the pump model, the component might be able of infuse/withdraw or just infusing.
This difference reflect the existence in commerce of both variants, i.e. pumps only capable of infusion and pumps that
support both infusion and withdrawing commands.

As for all `flowchem` devices, the virtual instrument can be instantiated via a configuration file that generates an
openAPI endpoint.


## Configuration
Configuration sample showing all possible parameters:

```toml
[device.my-elite11-pump]  # This is the pump identifier
type = "Elite11"
port = "COM11"  # This will be /dev/tty* under linux/MacOS
address = 0  # Only needed for daisy-chaining. The address can be set on the pump, see manufacturer manual.
syringe_diameter = "4.6 mm"
syringe_volume = "1 ml"
baudrate = 115200  # Values between 9,600 and 115,200 can be selected on the pump! (115200 assumed if not specified)
force = 100  # Value percent, use lower force for smaller syringes, see manual.
```

```{note} Serial connection parameters
Note, further parameters for the serial connections (i.e. those accepted by `serial.Serial`) such as `baudrate`,
`parity`, `stopbits` and `bytesize` can be specified.
However, it should not be necessary as the following values (which are the default for the instrument) are
automatically used:
* baudrate 115200
```

## API methods
Once configured, a flowchem Elite11 object will expose the following commands:

```{eval-rst}
.. include:: api.rst
```

## Device detection
Lab PCs often have several devices connected via serial ports.
Elite11 pumps can be auto-detected via the `flowchem-autodiscover` command-line utility.
After having installed flowchem, run `flowchem-autodiscover` to create a configuration stub with all the devices that
can be auto-detected on your PC.

## Further information
For further information about connection of the pump to the controlling PC, daisy-chaining via firmware cables etc.
please refer to the [manufacturer manual](./elite11_manual.pdf).
