docs/devices/hamilton/ml600.md, before:

# Hamilton Syringe Pump ML600

Hamilton ML600 pumps connected via serial (RS-232) cables are supported in flowchem via the `ML600` device type.
As for all `flowchem` devices, the virtual instrument can be instantiated via a configuration file that generates an
openAPI endpoint.


## Configuration
Configuration sample showing all possible parameters:

```toml
[device.my-ml600-pump]  # This is the pump identifier
type = "ML600"
port = "COM1"  # This will be /dev/tty* under linux/MacOS
address= 1  # If multiple devices are daisy chained, number in the chain 1=first...
syringe_volume = "1 ml"  # If the wrong syringe volume is set, the flow rate will be wrong.
```

```{note} Serial connection parameters
Note, further parameters for the serial connections (i.e. those accepted by `serial.Serial`) such as `baudrate`,
`parity`, `stopbits` and `bytesize` can be specified.
However, it should not be necessary as the following values (which are the default for the instrument) are
automatically used:
* baudrate 9600
* parity even
* stopbits 1
* bytesize 7
```

## Device detection
Lab PCs often have several devices connected via serial ports.
A simple command can help you to identify the serial port connected to the ML600 pump.

Simply run the `ml600-finder` command from the command line, after having installed flowchem.
% FIXME add a successful connection example here :D
```shell
(flowchem)  dario@eeepc > /tmp/pycharm_project_420 $ ml600-finder
2022-09-14 15:04:37.026 | INFO     | flowchem.devices.hamilton.ML600_finder:ml600_finder:14 - Found the following serial port(s): ['/dev/ttyS0']
2022-09-14 15:04:37.027 | INFO     | flowchem.devices.hamilton.ML600_finder:ml600_finder:20 - Looking for pump on /dev/ttyS0...
2022-09-14 15:04:37.027 | WARNING  | flowchem.devices.hamilton.ML600_finder:ml600_finder:24 - Cannot open /dev/ttyS0!
2022-09-14 15:04:37.027 | ERROR    | flowchem.devices.hamilton.ML600_finder:main:43 - No ML600 pump found
```


## Further information
For further information about connection of the pump to the controlling PC, daisy-chaining via RJ-12 cables etc.
please refer to the [manufacturer manual](./Microlab-600-RS-232-Communication-Manual.pdf).

Commit message:

Replace the different autofinder utilities with a single command

docs/devices/hamilton/ml600.md, after:

# Hamilton Syringe Pump ML600

Hamilton ML600 pumps connected via serial (RS-232) cables are supported in flowchem via the `ML600` device type.
As for all `flowchem` devices, the virtual instrument can be instantiated via a configuration file that generates an
openAPI endpoint.


## Configuration
Configuration sample showing all possible parameters:

```toml
[device.my-ml600-pump]  # This is the pump identifier
type = "ML600"
port = "COM1"  # This will be /dev/tty* under linux/MacOS
address= 1  # If multiple devices are daisy chained, number in the chain 1=first...
syringe_volume = "1 ml"  # If the wrong syringe volume is set, the flow rate will be wrong.
```

```{note} Serial connection parameters
Note, further parameters for the serial connections (i.e. those accepted by `serial.Serial`) such as `baudrate`,
`parity`, `stopbits` and `bytesize` can be specified.
However, it should not be necessary as the following values (which are the default for the instrument) are
automatically used:
* baudrate 9600
* parity even
* stopbits 1
* bytesize 7
```

## Device detection
Lab PCs often have several devices connected via serial ports.
ML600 pumps can be auto-detected via the `flowchem-autodiscover` command-line utility.
After having installed flowchem, run `flowchem-autodiscover` to create a configuration stub with all the devices that 
can be auto-detected on your PC.

## Further information
For further information about connection of the pump to the controlling PC, daisy-chaining via RJ-12 cables etc.
please refer to the [manufacturer manual](./Microlab-600-RS-232-Communication-Manual.pdf).
