# flowchem

Welcome to the new users guide to flowchem!

Flowchem is a python library to control a variety of instruments commonly found in chemistry labs.

## Installing flowchem
While the RESTful API created by flowchem can be consumed from different programs and programming languages, flowchem itself is written in the popular open-source language Python.

If you already have Python version 3.10 or above, you can install flowchem with pipx as follows:
```shell
pip install pipx
pipx ensurepath
pipx install flowchem
```
This is the recommended way because it will:
* install flowchem in a virtualenv, without messing up with your system interpreter
* make the `flowchem` command available system-wide, by adding it to the system PATH

Alternatively, you can install it *normally* via pip with:
```shell
pip install flowchem
```

If you don’t have Python yet, you can download it from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

To verify the installation has been completed successfully you can run `flowchem --version` command.

## How to use flowchem
Flowchem needs one device configuration file that specify the connection settings for all the devices to be controlled.
To save time, flowchem can autodetect many of the supported device type and generate a configuration stub.
This is done by running the `flowchem-autodiscover` program from the command line.

This is the result of running `flowchem-autodiscover` on a PC with FIXME WHAT connected to it.
```shell
```

A new file named `blabla` has been created in the current working directory, with the following content:
```toml
```

```{note}
While technically `my-devices.toml` is written in the markup language [TOML format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOML),
the syntax of this language is intuitive and designed to be as human-editable as possible.
If you follow this guide you will not need to learn anything about the TOML syntax but you can just copy and modify the
example provided.
```


As you can see, a few placemarks in the autogenerated file have to be replaced by actual settings.
For example, bla



If you have comments or suggestions, please don’t hesitate to [reach out](./community.md)!
